It's been a tough few months for the 1.8
trillion dollar private credit market.
The market is going through its biggest
crisis of confidence in its history.
Private credit firms make loans directly
to companies, giving them a way to
borrow outside of banks and bank-led
channels. They use money predominantly
from institutional investors, but
recently from some wealthy retail
investors, too, and became major lenders
to software companies, especially those
backed by private equity firms, which by
and large had seemed to be going pretty
well.
Now, you just have this existential risk
in the form of AI that can change
everything, and private credit's just at
the center of that now.
Late last year, concerned retail
investors started trying to pull their
money out.
Blue Owl allowed investors to take 15%
of shares out of one of its private
credit funds. It also sold assets to
return capital to investors and reduce
debt. Others got more creative. We did
see some Blackstone employees basically
pitching some of their own money to help
[music] meet redemption requests. But
this wasn't enough to calm investors.
Blue Owl's shares have fallen sharply
since the start of the year.
Industry-wide concern, though, meant it
was far from a unique case.
People have been talking for years about
how private credit has been untested,
and this is the first time that they've
really been under this amount of
pressure. Some observers have drawn
parallels with the lead-up to the 2008
financial crisis.
It has the same trappings as subprime
mortgage repackaging had. While others
say that fear is overblown, especially
since private credit firms don't use
your bank deposits to make loans. It's
just really hard to assess because these
loans are private. Private credit
lenders will tell you that they made
really smart investments, but the
concern is that what if they didn't.
Good news, everyone. Today, you're going
to learn the connection between one of
these, lots of these, and even this,
private credit. We can think of private
credit as [music] lending that's not
arranged by banks. It could be an
insurance company, or in many cases
these days, it could be a private credit
fund. These deals are managed by some of
the biggest names in private markets,
like Blackstone, [music] BlackRock, Blue
Owl, and even some not named after
colors, Greek gods for instance. But,
what is it? It's really a very broad
umbrella term that refers to multiple
forms of lending. The type that's in the
news most these days is what's called
direct lending. And that's when
basically these institutions lend money
directly to companies. If you're a
company and you need to borrow money,
you might go to a bank, but if you're
really, really big, a bank can't provide
that much of a loan to a single company.
So, instead, you go to the debt capital
markets, where a bank arranges a bond or
loan and sells it on to multiple
investors, for a fee, of course. Private
credit is [music] a way to accomplish
the same type of transaction, but just
directly between the borrower and the
ultimate buyer of that debt, cutting out
all those like middle stages.
And it became central [music] to the
global financial system. Back in 2015, I
think this market was around $500
[music] billion. dollars. The overall
assets under management for private
credit is roughly 1.8 trillion as of
today. The 1.8 trillion market that most
people talk about is just a subset of
what some managers see as a total
opportunity of as big as $40 trillion.
In other words, the current market's
just the tip of the iceberg for private
credit. Far bigger opportunities lurk
underneath.
There's supply chain finance, there is
consumer auto loans, mortgages, there's
railcar financing, there is different
kinds of trade financing, music
royalties. We did a story last year
about them getting into things that
would have normally been financed by
municipal bonds. A lot of lenders,
[music] especially places like Apollo,
feel like the sky's the limit. About 2/3
of the private debt market is in North
America. Europe takes the next biggest
slice, followed by Asia-Pacific and the
rest of the world. And you could see
private credit has been around for
>> [music]
>> decades, really. I think the 1980s is
probably when a lot of this started, but
[music] really back then it looked
nothing like it does today. One event in
particular didn't so much grease [music]
the wheels as crash the car and set fire
to it. The 2008 financial crisis led to
numerous regulations to try [music] to
keep that from happening again. And one
of the key things regulators essentially
said was they wanted banks to do less
risky lending. Regulators didn't [music]
want banks to make a lot of loans with
their own money. And that's what allowed
private credit to sort of [music] step
in and start doing a lot of this stuff.
It can also help out when things get
choppy in other debt markets.
For example, in 2022, the Federal
Reserve had to start raising interest
rates. It really caused some problems in
the high-yield bond and leveraged loan
markets and made those much harder to
borrow from.
>> [music]
>> And private credit lenders really
stepped up and they saw it as a massive
way to grow their market share. Now,
their loans can be more expensive than
traditional financing, but borrowers
often accept that for speed, certainty,
and longer-term relationships with
lenders. And software has been one of
the biggest targets for direct lenders
in recent years.
A lot of these companies have [music]
very strong revenue growth, but they're
not making money. That's something
[music] that banks have a hard time
financing, but private credit can do
quite easily. [music]
This is the S&P 500. And since 2022,
firms like Ares, Apollo, Blackstone, and
Blue Owl have seen their share prices
generally outperform it as they expanded
their credit strategies and grew their
assets under management.
Over that period, Blue Owl's AUM flew up
from around $100 billion
to more than $300 billion.
But something else happened in those 4
years.
Open AI is now valued at $852 billion.
Anthropic's making headlines [music]
almost on a weekly basis. The rise of AI
has completely abandoned the private
credit markets. So, now the [music]
spotlight is on how much exposure
private credit firms have to software.
And so, retail investors in particular
have been putting their money Shares of
KKR and Blue Owl were down as much as
10%. [music]
Blue Owl is one of the most exposed. And
it's why investors are trying to figure
out if those loans were underwritten
with sound principles or based on overly
optimistic growth trajectories that
the AI revolution could now put in
jeopardy. Towards the end of 2025, Blue
Owl co-CEO Marc Lipschultz was pretty
confident. Credit quality is excellent
in our book, and that doesn't mean no
defaults. Everyone's going to have
defaults now and then. We We just can't
have many, and you have to get good
recoveries, and that's exactly what we
do at Blue Owl. And by the way, so do
our peers, and so do the banks. In
November, though, it called off a merger
of two of its funds amid scrutiny over
potential investor losses.
It coincided with redemption requests,
that is, people asking for their money
back, climbing sharply across the
industry, including at Blackstone, Blue
Owl, and Apollo.
There's really not a fund that's been
spared over the last few months here.
We've seen huge funds receive massive
redemption requests that are [music]
unprecedented in the history of private
credit markets. A lot of the firms that
had made a big push into the retail
market have had to deal with these
redemption requests in an [music] amount
that was unprecedented.
And to preserve the value [music] of the
funds, they've had to limit, in many
cases, the amount of money that
investors could take out. In the first
quarter, funds were enforcing caps and
denying billions of dollars of
withdrawal requests, predominantly from
wealthy retail investors who'd sunk
capital into special products tailored
for them by private credit firms.
In some cases, their unmet requests were
tens of percentage points higher than
the money actually allowed to be taken
out.
This all comes years after heavy inflows
from institutional investors and
retail-focused funds, much of that money
[music] going into software businesses
that were seen as durable. Now, AI is
starting to challenge that assumption.
And all of this is harder to judge
because the market is so opaque.
Some of the main drawbacks of private
credit is there's much less
transparency. Private credit are bespoke
loans between sophisticated parties, and
it's all private. Loans are not
securities. And crucially, that privacy
means they don't really trade, so there
isn't a market deciding what they're
worth. Skeptics have begun questioning
the accuracy of private loan valuations,
particularly after a string of
investments recently had their values
slashed to zero with little to no
warning.
It follows the collapse of subprime auto
lender Tricolor and auto parts supplier
First Brands last year.
While only tangentially related to
private [music] credit, their demise
raised broader questions about
underwriting and hidden leverage across
all [music] credit markets. Jamie Dimon
has been um
sort of a vocal critic of the private
credit market is how I would say it. The
JP Morgan CEO was among the bankers
facing losses tied to Tricolor,
>> [music]
>> and he went full insect in his
assessment. I intend to go soft when
things like that happen, and you know, I
should probably shouldn't say this, but
when you see one cockroach, there're
probably more.
It's a very visual image of hidden
problems coming to the surface as as
cockroaches tend to do when lights go
off. But the bigger point that he was
making is there could be more problems
and this could be just the beginning and
no one is [music] really safe.
This is what led some observers to draw
comparisons to what happened in 2008. I
think the counter argument to that is
that the regulation following the 2008
financial crisis intentionally pushed
risky lending off of bank balance sheets
and instead ended up with investors. And
so they can't afford to lose that. They
may not like to lose that but they can't
afford to lose that. We're not really
seeing that sort of widespread distress
just yet. But definitely I think we can
say that the best days for private
credit are probably behind us and the
next few quarters, years are going to be
more challenging.